Select the information from the “dept_no” column of the “departments” table:
SELECT dept_no FROM department 

Select all data from the “departments” table:
SELECT * FROM departments

Select all people from the “employees” table whose first name is “Elvis”.
SELECT people FROM employees WHERE first_name = "Elvis"


Retrieve a list with all female employees whose first name is Kellie. 
SELECT * FROM employees WHERE gender="female" and first_name="Kellie".



Retrieve a list with all employees whose first name is either Kellie or Aruna.
SELECT * FROM employees where first_name="Kellie" or first_name="Aruna"


Retrieve a list with all female employees whose first name is either Kellie or Aruna.
SELECT * FROM employees where gender="female" and first_name="Kellie" or first_name="Aruna"


Use the IN operator to select all individuals from the “employees” table, whose first name is either “Denis”, or “Elvis”.




Extract all records from the ‘employees’ table, aside from those with employees named John, Mark, or Jacob.




Extract all individuals from the ‘employees’ table whose first name contains “Jack”.
Once you have done that, extract another list containing the names of employees that do not contain “Jack”.




Select all the information from the “salaries” table regarding contracts from 66,000 to 70,000 dollars per year.
Retrieve a list with all individuals whose employee number is not between ‘10004’ and ‘10012’.
Select the names of all departments with numbers between ‘d003’ and ‘d006’



Select the names of all departments whose department number value is not null.





Retrieve a list with data about all female employees who were hired in the year 2000 or after.
Hint: If you solve the task correctly, SQL should return 7 rows.
Extract a list with all employees’ salaries higher than $150,000 per annum.






Obtain a list with all different “hire dates” from the “employees” table.
Expand this list and click on “Limit to 1000 rows”. This way you will set the limit of output rows displayed back to the default of 1000.
In the next lecture, we will show you how to manipulate the limit rows count. 




How many annual contracts with a value higher than or equal to $100,000 have been registered in the salaries table?
How many managers do we have in the “employees” database? Use the star symbol (*) in your code to solve this exercise.




Select all data from the “employees” table, ordering it by “hire date” in descending order.'




This will be a slightly more sophisticated task.
Write a query that obtains two columns. The first column must contain annual salaries higher than 80,000 dollars. 
The second column, renamed to “emps_with_same_salary”, must show the number of employees contracted to that salary. Lastly, sort the output by the first column.
